
String Encoding Service
========

The string encoding service is used by the `IBarcodeService` and `ISigningService` to serialise the `Vds<TVdsMessage>` into a JSON string. Serialization also includes the canonicalization process used to provide consistent signature validation when reading a signed VDS-NC barcode.

## Interface: `IStringEncodingService`
---

### Method: `EncodeForSigning<T>(T data)`

#### Description

Serializes an object of type `T` into a canonical JSON string.

#### Input

| Field | Type | Description | Note |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| data | `T` : `object` | The object to serialize | Required | 

#### Output

Type | Description | 
| --- | --- |
| `string` | The JSON representation of the input object |

### Method: `EncodeForBarcode<T>(T data)`

#### Description

Serializes an object of type `T` into a JSON string.

#### Input

| Field | Type | Description | Note |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| data | `T` : `object` | The object to serialize | Required | 

#### Output

Type | Description | 
| --- | --- |
| `string` | The JSON representation of the input object |

## Implementation: `JsonStringEncodingService`
-----

#### Description

The `JsonStringEncodingService` implements `EncodeForBarcode<T>(T data)` and `EncodeForBarcode<T>(T data)`. This implementation is dependant on the data annotations applied to `Vds<PovVdsMessage>`.

#### Configuration

This service does not provide configuration options.

#### Extension

This service utilizes Newtonsoft.Json library to perform JSON serialization. How fields are configured is determined by the data annotations applied to the `Vds<PovVdsMessage>` and its component objects.

If this type is replaced or exteneded, assure that the appropriate data annotations are included over the new fields. Some annotations are provided below.

| Annotation | Purpose |
| --- | --- |
| `[JsonProperty(string name)]` | Sets the name of the property in the resulting JSON string | 
| `[JsonIgnore]` | Prevents the property appearing in the resulting JSON string | 

For more information, see the Newtonsoft.Json documentation: https://www.newtonsoft.com/json 
