
Signing Service
===

The signing service attaches the digital signature to the `Vds<TVdsMessage>` object.

# Interface: `ISigningService<TVdsMessage>`


## Method: `CreateSignature(Vds<TVdsMessage> vds)`

### Description

Creates or fetches a digital signature for the `Data` component of the `Vds<TVdsMessage>` and attaches it to the `Signature` component of the `Vds<TVdsMessage>`.

Implementations should only modify the `Signature` component of the `Vds<TVdsMessage>` before returning the original object by reference. This will allow for the `Vds<TVdsMessage>` to be extended to contain additional information which the signing service may not be aware of.

### Input

| Field | Type | Description | Note |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| vds | `Vds<TVdsMessage>` | The VDS-NC to sign | Required |

### Output

Type | Description | Note |
| --- | --- | --- |
| vds | `Vds<TVdsMessage>` | The VDS-NC with attached signature |

# Implementation: `HttpSigningService<TVdsMessage>`

## Description

The `HttpSigningService` JSON encodes a `Vds<TVdsMessage>` and transmits it to an external HTTP REST service. It expects a `VdsSignature` object in response. It then sets the original `VdsSignature` fields to match the response `VdsSignature`.

> **Important:** The default `HttpSigningService` does not prescribe any security or authentication policies. Adding a web client to an application exposes your application to additional cybersecurity risks. Review your organisation's security policies as well as reputable resources such as the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) Top Ten (https://owasp.org/Top10/)

## Configuration

```json
{
  "VisibleDigitalSeal": {
    "HttpSigningServiceOptions": {
      "SigningServiceBaseUrl": "string",
      "SigningEndpoint": "string"
    }
  }
}
```

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| SigningServiceBaseUrl | `string` | The url of the external signing service. Include the 'https://' prefix | `null` |
| SigningEndpoint | `string` | The endpoint at the external service which accepts VDS-NC signing requests  | `null` |

### Configuration during Dependency Injection

When using the `HttpSigningService<TVdsMessage>` via dependency injection, the built in method `AddVdsSigningService` allows access to the `IHttpClientBuilder` to enable you to set headers and authentication to use for the external service.

> **IMPORTANT:** Using the below overload of `AddVdsHttpSigningService()` will replace the logic which sets the `BaseAddress` of the `HttpClient`. You must set this value manually instead of using the `SigningServiceBaseUrl` in the configuration file.

```csharp
using Apo.VisibleDigitalSeal.Extensions.DependencyInjection;
public class Startup
{
    public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
    {
        ...

        services.AddVdsHttpSigningService((httpBuilder) => httpBuilder
            .ConfigurePrimaryHttpMessageHandler((sp) =>
            {
                // Create and configure the client handler
                return new HttpClientHandler();
            })
            .ConfigureHttpClient((sp, httpClient) =>
            {
                // Configure the client
                httpClient.BaseAddress = new Uri("https://signing.service");
            })
        );
    }
}
```

## Extension

The signing service does not contain any methods designed for extension. Authentication settings can be added using the configuration settings above.
