Document Service
========

The document service renders a vaccination certificate or similar document which contains a VDS-NC barcode.

## Implementation: `PdfDocumentService<TVdsMessage>`
-----

### Description

The `PdfDocumentService<TVdsMessage>` renders a CSHTML Razor template into a PDF document. This is done by extending the `HtmlDocumentService<TVdsMessage>`. For more information on the `HtmlDocumentService<TVdsMessage>` see [2.6.2 HtmlDocumentService](./2.6.2.HtmlDocumentService.md).

### Configuration

```json
{
  "VisibleDigitalSeal": {
    "HtmlDocumentServiceOptions": {
      "TemplateFilePath": "string"
    },
    "PdfDocumentServiceOptions": {
      "PageWidth": int,
      "MarginTop": int,
      "MarginRight": int,
      "MarginBottom": int,
      "MarginLeft": int
    }
  }
}
```

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| TemplateFilePath | `string` | A relative path to the CSHTML template. Optional field.<br>If this field is not provided a default template is used  | - |
| PageWidth | `int` | The width of the simulated web page in pixels. Lower values will enlarge document elements | `800` |
| MarginTop | `int` | The size of the top page margin in 1/72nds of an inch | `30` |
| MarginRight | `int` | The size of the right page margin in 1/72nds of an inch | `38` |
| MarginBottom | `int` | The size of the bottom page margin in 1/72nds of an inch | `40` |
| MarginLeft | `int` | The size of the left page margin in 1/72nds of an inch | `38` |

### Troubleshooting

Issue: "Conversion failure. Could not find ‘Select.Html.dep’."

`Select.HtmlToPdf.NetCore` (The PDF rendering library) requires an engine file to run. By default, this file is expected to be in the root of your build/deployment. Depending on how you consume this VDS-NC library, the file might not be written.

The VDS-NC library does not directly package this file, as it is part of `Select.HtmlToPdf.NetCore`'s source code.

#### Option 1: Add `Select.HtmlToPdf.NetCore` as a nuget dependency for your project
Adding `Select.HtmlToPdf.NetCore` as a dependency via the nuget package manager will write the Select.Html.dep file to your project. It should appear in the root of your project in Visual Studio and in the output folder on build.

#### Option 2: Copy the file from the `Select.HtmlToPdf.NetCore` package
When this library is installed, it will include `Select.HtmlToPdf.NetCore` as a dependency. You can find the select.html.dep file in the `Select.HtmlToPdf.NetCore` nupkg file at: `<Nuget Dir>\packages\select.htmltopdf.netcore\<version>\contentFiles\any\any\select.html.dep`

1. Copy this file to your project's root
2. Right-click the file, select properties (This is for Visual Studio. In other IDEs you may need to edit the csproj file)
3. Set 'Build Action' to 'Content'
4. Set 'Copy to Output Directory' to 'Copy Always'

For more information: https://selectpdf.com/how-to-fix-conversion-failure-could-not-find-select-html-dep/ 

### Extension

#### Extended PDF Renderer Config

The underlying library used by the `PdfDocumentService` to render a HTML page into a PDF document has significant and detailed configuration option. In order to provide access to this configuration, the `PdfDocumentService<TVdsMessage>` provides the `ConfigurePdfRenderer(HtmlToPdf converter)` method.

Overriding this method allows a developer to access `converter.Options` and change settings. 

> IMPORTANT: Overriding this method will disable the default config options. Call the base method to include these, or reimplement them.

> IMPORTANT: If extending the `PdfDocumentRenderer` and using dependency injection, you will need to register your service and options. See **Registering a new service** below.

For Example:
```csharp
protected override void ConfigurePdfRenderer(HtmlToPdf converter)
{
    // Call original method
    base.ConfigurePdfRenderer(converter);

    // Some additional configuration
    converter.Options.CssMediaType = HtmlToPdfCssMediaType.Print;
    converter.Options.MarginTop = mathf.Pi * 100f;
}
```

More information on the available configuration can be found at: https://selectpdf.com/html-to-pdf/docs/html/Index.htm

#### CSHTML template loading

`PdfDocumentService` extends `HtmlDocumentService`. To extend `PdfDocumentSevice` and change how the CSHTML template is loaded, see the extension notes for the `HtmlDocumentService` at [2.6.2 HtmlDocumentService](./2.6.2.HtmlDocumentService.md).

#### Registering a new service

If extending the `PdfDocumentService` and using dependency injection, you must register the configuration and extended class in your service registration.

```csharp
public class Startup
{
    public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
    {
        ...
       
        //REMOVED: services.AddVdsPdfDocumentService();
        services.AddOptions<HtmlDocumentServiceOptions>()
            .BindConfiguration($"VisibleDigitalSeal:{nameof(HtmlDocumentServiceOptions)}");
        services.AddOptions<PdfDocumentServiceOptions>()
            .BindConfiguration($"VisibleDigitalSeal:{nameof(PdfDocumentServiceOptions)}");

        services.AddScoped<IDocumentService<PovVdsMessage>, MyDocumentService<PovVdsMessage>>();
        
        ...
    }
}
```

